Welcome back.
When a user requests a page for your site the page is DML starts streaming to the browser as soon as
a browser encounters a tag for an external image a script a c file.
It will start downloading the file simultaneously when the browser receives or e-mail it does something
called parsing it it's breaking it down into a vocabulary it understands.
After understanding the document this is what it does it starts creating the Dom as we've mentioned
the document object model.
And again as it's building that as soon as it sees an external resource it goes ahead and starts downloading
all of those.
And usually the CSSA and javascript files take high priority and other files like images take lower
priority.
So how do we optimize this process.
How do we optimize the HCM Alpha which is step 1.
Well the first thing you want to do is to load styles that is CSSA files as soon as possible and script
that is javascript files as late as possible with a few exceptions here and there.
Why.
Well one of the main principles of CSSA performance is to get the CSSA to the browser as soon as possible.
Javascript requires the melon CSSA parsing to finish before it can be run.
That's step 4 here.
This way would give styles ample time to create the DSS object model.
So if you put javascript in the head tag in a Mel.
The problem with that positioning if it's at the top is that it blocks page rendering scripts historically
blocked additional resources from being downloaded more quickly.
By replacing them at the bottom or by placing them at the bottom you're style content and media could
start downloading more quickly given the perception of improved performance.
The best way to demonstrate this is through an example I have over here a very very simple index card
a set him off.
It has a simple H-1 tag a button that does absolutely nothing.
And we have a link tag with an external style sheet here and a script tag at the bottom as I mention
which simply just doesn't alert saying check.
So if we go to our browser We have our Web site here very pretty.
Our network tab is open and if I click refresh here I see that my index file and stardate see a SS file
is well it looks like it's loaded.
And because we have an alert here it's blocking the rendering of the page because the javascript is
running right now and we'll get to why that is.
And the later videos.
But for now I want you to see that the index and saw fall where both downloaded.
Now let's try something else.
If I move this script tag up above the stylesheet I save.
And now I refresh my page
we see that the stylesheet is now pending.
If I click OK it then starts downloading and we see over here that the style sheet stalled for 14 seconds
because we didn't let it download mainly because javascript was running.
And then finally loaded and downloaded after Javascript.
So you see here how we blocked other things from happening just by having script agues up in the deck.
So again we want to make sure that javascript files tend to be at the bottom and now there is some exceptions
let's say for example you have Google Analytics which is a script tag and you want that to be executed
right away maybe you want to know what the user does.
The very first second on the Web site.
In that case you might want to put a script tag at the top but keep in mind that that may slow your
Web site.
And we also want to make sure that the styles are being downloaded as soon as possible.
So that's why we put them in the head.
So let's review if you put your scripts or the script tags at the bottom of the page.
They'll be loaded last.
In other words something can show up on the browser faster.
You users don't have to wait for a script to finish downloading before they see something in your application.
And you also want to load your style tags as soon as possible so that that CSSA document object can
be created as soon as possible.
And remember in order for us to create the render tree.
All right.
So that's the first part.
Let's look at step two.
And then all the rest of the steps in the next videos see that by.